when I started thinking in terms of
other people's perspective and how would
I want to be treated by that other
person it's the Golden Rule you know
that's what everybody knows is it the
Golden Rule let me just so the golden
rule is do unto others as you'd have
them do unto you I don't think that's
exactly what you're saying but by me
instead of do unto others I think would
be something like be for others you know
what you'd want them to be for you so I
have this slogan that just came up in
conversation with my girlfriend which is
that you know you grow up you really
become an adult when you stop making
excuses for yourself and then there's
this other dynamic which is maybe even
more intense now in the 21st century
with social media which is that you
start to grow up what maybe your friends
stop making excuses for you or you stop
accepting the excuses that your friends
make for you because that can really
hold you back you know having a circle
of friends they may love you and they
may care about you but they're keeping
you childish they're preventing you from
confronting what you've done wrong and
learning from your mistakes and moving
on they're even preventing you from
taking yourself seriously because you
know they're making you feel good about
your childish habits or if they're just
infantilizing you yeah you know what
that's the most intense form of the
tyranny of low expectations right sorry
the soft bigotry of low expectations is
that your own friends may just have low
expectations of you and that and that
holds you back I got my girlfriend
Melissa on the line here you may or may
not know this Melissa is 26 years old I
had a series of videos lately directly
and indirectly critiquing Rachel Oats
Rachel Oats also as far as I know 26
years old chance the rapper chance the
rapper 26 years old
well Tyler the Creator 28 years old
Alexandria Ocasio quartets
do you care to guess you might know how
old is Alexander kisi Cortese my guess
is 30 29 29 so you know when her 30th
birthday comes around she's gonna be
really weeping in her pancakes lamenting
oh she hasn't accomplished anything in
her life you know what if he be like I
made it to 30 and I still ain't done
[ __ ] so you know I don't have hard
feelings about this it's not something
I'm really exercised about but when I
hear somebody like rationality rules
saying of Rachel at age 26 this other
person on Twitter bullied her into
slitting her wrists this other person on
Twitter manipulated her into doing x y&z
that someone else you know made up her
mind for her to self-harm or attempt
suicide and film it and uploaded on the
internet and this this series of
evaporite behaviors you know part of
what I'd want to say to him man to man
if he were a friend of mine was look if
this were Tyler the Creator would you
say that if this were chance the rapper
would you say that and even if this were
Alexandra okay Jie Cortese would you say
that look I think there there are really
weird perceptions of age that are built
into our relationships where people
infantilize each other and you know to
use that well-worn phrase there's the
bigotry of low expectations I thought I
couldn't agree with you more you grow up
when you stop making excuses for
yourself you know
so killing job John Kennedy right he was
24 years old god I forgot that wow
that's a Jesus that's a great example 24
years old and he'd already he'd already
joined the army dropped out of the army
moved to Russia moved back again at
least one kid I forget if you have one
kid or two to be honest to you but yeah
he had a wife and kid at least yeah
that's right and then he got himself ran
for she yeah well let's ask this - this
is really Socratic this is really
getting back to Socrates who is a good
friend to you the person who makes
excuses for you and helps you remain
childish the person who kind of you know
encourages you to be soft and vulnerable
and weak and says there there it's not
your fault you didn't do this somebody
else somebody else did somebody else as
well or the friend who says to you yes
well what I said the other day when I
was talking to you you know you were
saying you don't know what what the
perception of your video was from Rachel
Lodz
yeah and from my perspective now I can
kind of say like I'm her same age I
could think more positively about and
having more experience with you the fact
that I that I care so much about you
like I would appreciate that criticism I
would appreciate somebody having you
know what you've said on your channel
before is respecting someone enough to
disrespect that yeah yeah and also on
your channel is you've made videos
saying stop in tantalising women yes I
mean here's a woman right I think this
video will go on that playlist I mean
it's a simple point but it's kind of
mysterious in its application because
people lose people said of it like I
understand this guy rationality rules he
doesn't have any bad intentions and
saying to this girl don't worry
strong you're wonderful what you did was
strong it's not your fault if this other
guy's fault for bullying bullying you
into self harming bullying you into
manipulating you into you know uploading
this thing to the internet you just did
this for this reason well you know
sometimes we treat the genders
differently you know if we're talking
about child birth or military service
there are some ways in which the roles
of men and women are asymmetrical that
have to get dealt with
but I do think it's important to
challenge yourself in these situations
how would this be different for me if
the person I was talking to was it was a
man of the same age instead of a woman
what if your friend was a black dude who
looks like Tyler the Creator you know
what I mean can you imagine saying to
him after this dude attempted suicide or
slashed his wrists and bled on camera
and filmed it and uploaded it and then
sent that film out to the public and the
person who'd been cool on quote bullying
him on Twitter I wouldn't even dignify I
can't even really call it bullying under
these circumstances without getting into
details but I mean I've seen the
messages and I know she was blocked
anyway so she she will they weren't even
being sent her I think to an extent that
is massive what you actually look like
yes right you're perceived by those
around you changes what you have gotten
away with throughout your life and what
you've had to be exposed to real life
gender you know height yeah my line
right away one of the reasons I'm using
a face here why I'm putting in a picture
of like this is Tyler the Creator this
is chance the rapper like to visualize
if this was your friend was a kind of
large self-confident black male of about
the same age is that you know I think
it's really sad that for a kind of small
effeminate guy some people would make
the same excuses without questioning it
without examining it whereas they
wouldn't
for a kind of tall self-confident male
what the hell does height have to do
with it you know I have a going but I do
think it's not just gender it's it's
perceived masculinity which includes
race you know in a really you know bad
way I mean there's no reason why an
asian man should be perceived as less
masculine than a black man but I think
prejudicially probably in New York City
people do people do think of the
different ethnic groups as more or less
massive a sense of what people who look
like you are able to get away with in
society and what other people say you
know he is the victim in this situation
if it were right at all even the seeming
because we 26 is not young you're no kid
at 27 but look the only thing I want to
be more precise than saying getting away
with getting away with something means
different things there for people what
we're really talking about here is
someone reassuring you and saying it's
not your fault
yes like no you took a razor blade or
whatever kind of knife and you cut your
own arm and you made the decision to do
it on camera
and you upload it to the public in some
countries that's a crime in on many
websites it's a violation of Terms of
Service you know uploading images of
gore or self harming very often it's a
ban humble offense whether or not it's
actually criminal wherever you are is is
another question you know local laws and
regulations okay you did this you and if
you're my friend let's just say I have a
friend who looks like Tyler the Creator
it's not whatever you know it's a dude
dude what the [ __ ] are you thinking you
know uh you know it would not even occur
to me to say to him
oh don't worry it's not you it's this
other person this other person bullied
you into it you only did it for this
reason and of course of course
she makes those excuses for herself but
we see other people making those excuses
for her also you know
yeah yeah I'm just being more
Foresight's I'm saying getting one you
know I what age were you gonna start
taking responsibility for yourself and
your own actions and a broader sense who
is responsible
you know her for her actions for her
pattern of self-harm for her
depression-era lot people can can blame
your upbringing you can blame your
experiences in life but yeah that's the
broader question who is responsible just
one year's going by I think that is also
a big part of growing up it's all oh
also part of of being grown is
recognizing that life is long what seems
like a big deal to you today won't seem
like a big deal to you six months from
now right like how are you going to let
it affect you right well you must
remember this at least twice in this
relationship I've said to you you know
there's a difference between something
being large and something just being
close to you
the difference is perspective
perspective is telling the difference
between things that really loom large
and things that I'm really close to you
as opposed to far away right yeah okay
look look Melissa my girlfriend you're
cute you're not like roly-poly cute
you're more strut you're more striking
than Hugh I mean no I mean I'm not
saying I could but you know but cuteness
is different from beauty you know what I
mean like for some girls they really
have a childish look about them but
nevertheless in your case also I mean
you could drift through life and have
people treat you as young you could be
the young lady right up until one day
you're middle-aged and nobody's making
excuses anymore you know what I mean but
maybe you could even skate till like 32
or 35 where everyone's infantilizing you
everyone's treating you like you're
still a teenager and then all of a
sudden you know you're a grown-up
right I saw you're the first person
who's really not
excuses for me right so I think so it
was two months after we started when I
started thinking in terms of other
people's perspective and how would I
want to be treated by that other person
it's the golden rule you know that's
what everybody knows okay is it the
golden rule let me just say what the
golden rule is do unto others as you'd
have them do unto you I don't think
that's exactly what you're saying I mean
I I think the point is more like be the
sort of person that you would appreciate
as a good person if you were evaluating
somebody else you know I gave her this
example earlier we're talking on the
phone you know somebody who's smoking
marijuana and playing video games and
they may have all kinds of excuses for
why they're enjoying their life and
there's nothing wrong with this they
they don't feel any guilt about it but
then if you ask them if you had a
teenage son yourself is this what you
would want your teenage son to be doing
with this time or if you were still a
teenager and this is what your parents
were doing with their time if your
parents were getting high infinity how
would you feel about that and then I
mean at once it's kind of an extension
of the role yeah it's kind of an
extension of the role because like in
that phrase treat others how you'd like
to be treated it's also a reflection of
who you are right how you want to be
treated you know when I first heard the
video you made recently talking to
Rachel Oates are talking about Rachel
Oates dude I thought I would be honored
if somebody made that video trying to
have a morality lesson you know trying
to teach me something like that but that
reflects who I am she did not respond
this way go on she did not appreciate it
for going in exactly right so you know
it's kind of you're right it's not just
the golden hole it's kind of an
extension of that I seen but by man
instead of do unto others I think would
be something like be for others you know
what you'd want them to be for you now I
I think though putting it into the the
unequal relationship of parent and child
is what also gives that life though like
you know I would want you to be
responsible you know a responsible
person toward me maybe not literally my
parent but it's not just that I want you
to be fun you know what I mean I don't
want you to be entertaining for me that
I want you to be a good person in at
least the sense where you would be care
you would be capable of taking care of
me or you'd be capable of taking care of
somebody you know you mentioned this not
me you mentioned the image from Sparta
from ancient Sparta that all of the
citizens of sparta were expected to
behave as parents toward everyone else
it's a very interesting right and you
know interesting it's a not necessarily
be friends with everybody like you say
not necessarily just be the guy that
everybody likes to have fun with you
want everybody else to take
responsibility for what they're doing
with their lives and in that way that's
that's basically what the image of
Socrates is you know that is the gadfly
in society that you know getting people
to question what they're doing why
they're doing it
a lot of people don't like that figure
but I do you know I like I like being
challenged and I think a lot of personal
growth comes from that and that's that's
what you need you don't want to stay in
the same place you don't want friends
that are just gonna tell you that you're
you're doing alright don't infantilize
women don't don't don't make excuses for
people because all these
and their behavior yeah I'm sorry I cut
you up a man sir that is a good point so
you were saying
the point is ultimately you want friends
who don't make excuses for you because
that encourages you did not make excuse
yourselves I do think that's it really
that's a really important point with
this case study of Rachel Oates I notice
also that all of her friends and all of
our supporters are telling her that
she's a good person that she's a
wonderful person that she's a strong
person you know and that's just
something she is right like it's a
quality of the soul that they're
ascribing to her and that's also really
dangerous to me because then also that's
not something you strive to be or
something you question right like you
know and the particular scenario is a
bit surreal like okay if I have a male
friend who's the same age she's 26 years
old I have a friend who's a dude and he
attempts suicide on camera and uploads
the footage of him attempting suicide
himself harming and bleeding out of his
arm and him weeping and carrying on and
he does that to get the attention and
sympathy of other people on the Internet
including one person who quote-unquote
bullied him you know without digressing
into whether or not the word bullying
even applies um would anyone respond to
that by telling him that he's a good
person and that he's strong he's a
wonderful person and so on like
shouldn't there be questioning of
exactly those things isn't that exactly
what you want the person to question you
know like wait a minute why why are you
so weak why are you so so settled this
don't you really need to examine isn't
this what we need to talk about yeah go
on
we're in the realm of discussing human
psychology here and a big factor is
appearance a big factor is what you
experienced growing up you know like
what is okay for these different for
what's normalized and culture like how
can you express your your feelings of
it's not normal to show yourself self
harming video it's really not that's
extreme um but you did like you said
it's
a man wouldn't be like the people
wouldn't make excuses for fur a man that
age I don't think like they like they do
with a female at that age so I I don't
know I mean growing up in America to get
this this problem with mass shootings I
mean I know this is a political topic
but like you know what's what's okay for
a female to do you know she shows
herself self-harming because she's been
bullied I think sorry I shouldn't be
saying no no again I think I think
though you get into the other the other
problem of you know the the soft bigotry
of low expectations there which is
mental disability because that's the
other big thing that's it's talked about
and yet also avoided in those
discussions is well you know quite a few
of these mass shooters they have
Asperger's syndrome they have autism
spectrum disorder they are mentally
[ __ ] one way or the other and you
know even if you just watch the footage
of the interrogations it's sometimes
very obvious there's this image of the
autistic person kind of presented by
Hollywood like oh he's just slightly
quirky no it's a serious disability you
know and you know being disabled doesn't
make you nice and doesn't make you
harmless doesn't make you cute either
and yeah I mean you know so it's it or
is the infantilization of disabled
people and the infantilization of of
women also yeah I mean over time where
does it leave you after living with
those those low expectations for so long
yeah I think you know the question that
you let off with is you know when did
you start feeling like you're not making
excuses for yourself
yeah it really took some some pretty
intense situations with you for me to to
see myself instead in a different light
[Music]
imagining that my behavior is being done
by somebody of a different gender of a
different age of different physical
stature yeah if you imagine it you're
behavior in that light you really start
to see things differently I came back
where you've been asking you I can't
remember even asking you how would you
feel about the argument you just
presented to me if it was some other
young I can remember to it that too with
you as a thought experiment where there
wasn't even that you were like oh wow
it's really different when I'm imagining
someone that was early in the
relationship having now seen being
living in a different culture meeting
other people from from around the world
to will influence what you think it's
normal what you think it was acceptable
behavior yeah and and what you think you
know what what we make excuses for in
America are different I mean there's
more than one way out of this kind of
excuse making mentality but like being a
good person or being a good woman is
even more loaded being a good man
somehow that's different from being a
good person you know shouldn't be but it
is they have different connotations
culturally but you know it's really
different even if you just narrow it
down to think about being a good author
being a good writer
some like this you know what I mean I
had a conversation with my father
million my father's dead never the way
but back back when I was a teenager and
you know I just commented at that time I
was studying the theater including
ancient Greek theater you know when I
commented about a particular play by a
particular author I said oh I just
finished reading this play and I really
feel like copying it out longhand you
know just to kind of study more
carefully you know if you if you write
something out longhand you take the time
and you really think about how it's
composed you know just I remember the
phrase I use the time what I actually
said to my father was I feel like
writing it out longhand just to sort of
step through the same footsteps as the
author you know yes yes and all that my
father said to me he just stood there in
the kitchen and he said what's stopping
him
and for me I mean that was one of those
moments where you stop and ask yourself
what excuses am I really making you know
I thought about it afterwards you know
do I really want to be a writer do I
really want to be an author do I really
want to do this work or not because if I
wanted to you know I mean see if there's
some other guy who really wanted to do
this that's what he'd do you know what I
mean do I really want to whether it's
writing for the theater or writing
nonfiction is this really is this really
what I want to do I want to take myself
seriously as as an author or not but I
mean being a good author or being a good
writer you know already there there's a
challenge to you right whereas being a
good person people don't think of that
in a way that challenges them if
anything they use that notion to
insulate themselves against being
challenged I think